everyone it's a Mohito bring you the
first endorphin gymnastics training camp
this one is focusing on backward
tumbling the first thing we want to do
is delete the standard simulation
character and add in the flexible
character of your choice I'm going with
Jack now that we've done that we need to
put a constraint event on the timeline I
like to put mine on the environment make
sure that the constraint starts at one
and in position strength we delete the
values for X and y and with angular
strength we delete the values for X only
with this constraint make sure that you
select the hips and the highest part of
the torso now we're going to create the
sit active pose it's very simple you
just lock the hips and bring the thighs
to a 90 degree angle to the torso they
should be parallel to the ground and
then have the lower legs at a 90 degree
angle to the thighs they should be
vertical to the ground use multiple
viewpoints to make sure that the
character's body is in the right
position and that's pretty much all you
really need to focus on you can also use
the viewpoints to make sure that the
character's body is perfectly parallel
to each other when you look at the
character from different angles you
should be able to see that the character
like you shouldn't be able to see the
lower leg behind the other lower leg and
you can see I just fixed that I also
previously recorded me making these
active poses and I sped it up so that
you don't have to sit here for three
minutes watching me make this pose when
you move the arms I like to lock the
chest and the colors and then you just
move the front of the arms the highest
part of your arms forward so that
they're parallel with each other
and rotate the hands that they're flush
to the ground it's a very simple pose I
have three different versions of it but
the version that I'm showing you right
now is the one that you use constantly
for endorphin gymnastics anytime that
you want to land or jump using the sit
pose are using this sit pose to make a
slightly different version is what
you're gonna be doing it makes things a
lot easier and this is the most basic
version make sure that the thighs are
parallel the feet are parallel
everything needs to just kind of be at
right angles to each other I'm spending
a considerable amount of time working on
the hands that's not as important but
it's still important as you can see the
arms are parallel to each other and the
character looks like it's sitting in a
chair with its arms out in front and I
set the strength of this active pose to
three test it out I prefer the
character's chest to be a little bit
more upright in this position so I
increase the strength to four
and that's a little bit more to my
liking again I previously captured me
making this animation and I'm just
recording my voice over it I thought
it'd be a little bit more time-saving to
do it this way for the viewer and as you
can see this is what the sit post looks
like the feet are flats the ground the
lower legs are vertical the thighs are
horizontal and I think that you need to
focus on is that the hips get behind the
feet and now I'm making the arch pose
which is just the standard jumping
backwards post that we're gonna use to
make our back handspring what you need
to focus on and what I did to make this
easier myself is just copy/paste the sit
post just highlight pilot the active
pose hit ctrl-c and ctrl-v and then slid
the active pose over I'm now using it to
make this new pose with the arms I'm
making sure that they're in a straight
line to the torso the highest part of
the torso then I just rotated the parts
of the back backwards and every time I'm
loop move to a different part of the
spine I locked it as you can see the
spine turned gray again I'm using
different viewpoints to make sure that
the character's legs are parallel and
also my character is really flexible so
I was able to arch its back really far
it's going to flip over pretty easily if
your character isn't as flexible it's
going to be more difficult for you to
make tumbling scenes if your character
is really flexible you don't need to use
the full extent of its flexibility the
arch that I have right now is pretty
good also the angle that they can't let
the thigh is coming off the hip is
pretty good not too severe and I set
this strength to nine and as you see the
character flips over to its chest and
that's really what I want
and I'm gonna fill with this for a
little bit I put a little space in
between it to see if I can get the
character to travel a little bit more
what's the first back handspring it's
going to be a little bit higher than
everything else but you want the
character to travel at least one of the
larger boxes away from its feet and
again note that the hips are behind the
feet and the character travels backwards
and it's almost flipped over to its
chest when it's hands are contacting the
ground we want the shoulder we want the
hands to be in front of the shoulders
when we get to this position and I
lowered the strength there just a little
bit to see how that was the hands are in
front of the shoulders and that's what
we need to continue tumbling check out
part 2 where I get the character from
its hands to its feet
I'm just taking trying to take
everything slow and steady with you guys
so that you are able to make more
tumbling scenes in the future and not
just this one and as you continue
watching these videos you learn the
mechanics and again check out part 2